## V. Discussion and Conclusion {.page_break_before}

### A. Interpreting Results

The usefulness of this model and the level of accuracy that an RMSE of 0.20K represents depends on the desired application. For decision-making purposes, a RMSE of 0.20K is much lower than the uncertainty of future emissions, climate forcing/dynamics, and model structural uncertainty. For stakeholders/policymakers, this model would be most useful for predicting general patterns in urban temperature (both spatially and temporally), rather than for exact quantities. Additionally, it would be very useful in creating large ensemble projections of urban temperature under future climate change. 

### B. What We Learned

#### **1. Importance of Variable Selection** 

As we saw from the EDA, there are many variables with multicollinearity. When the correlations were examined, some of the variables were very highly correlated, such as TG or TSKIN. However, it’s important for us to recognize which of these would actually be significant variables to include in the model. While it was tempting to use these to make a model that would have high predictive capability, this would not be valuable from an emulator perspective, and it might give us false confidence in our model. Instead, we needed to identify variables that were likely correlated or had driving capability of TSA but that were truly independent. In addition, we wanted to select variables that could be found in other models so that this approach might be scaled or informative to practical applications.
We learned through this process that the choice of variables used as the independent input or feature variables is very important. Our approaches ranged from using only seven common atmospheric variables to using over 40 of the columns as feature variables. On one hand, we demonstrated that there are numerous variables that should not be chosen as the input variables because of their close link to the target variable. We expected that including these variables would make it too easy for the model to accurately predict the target. When tried, it is true that including some of these closely linked variables resulted in the best results for the random forest model. However, surprisingly, in some of the model runs, having more variables did not necessarily mean that the model would perform better. For example, the Random Forest model that included the 41 variables performed worse than a model with 10 variables. And, the Neural Network model with the least variables performed best. In

#### **2. Difficulties of Operating on Large Data**

Throughout the modeling process, we faced numerous challenges due to the large size of our input dataset. Opening the files as dataframes or making edits to them was arduous. In addition, it made running the neural network very cumbersome, particularly when the number of feature variables was high. Kaggle often ran out of memory or processing space or the platform would crash before making it through the model, which meant the necessary inputs were lost. These challenges presented limitations on the amount of trials that we could run and it also made it more difficult to run different hyperparameter permutations to improve model tuning.

Future research in this area would likely require greater computing power. While it is still less computationally demanding that the earth systems models themselves, even the files required to run these models are very large and taxing on computer memory when using open-source tools not capable of this level of computing. Therefore, we could probably have achieved better results using additional storage and computing to find even more closely tuned parameters and compare the various model runs more easily.

### C. Use of Machine Learning for Earth Systems Model Emulation

Generally, all the emulators created in the study have shown great power in achieving our goal of predicting urban temperatures from earth system models with less computing resources required. Even the simplest linear regression models showed high accuracy. Nevertheless, we were still able to further boost the performance with a highly credible random forest emulator whose root-mean-squared error was significantly smaller than the urban temperature differences between CESM member runs (~1.5K). As few as 7 variables were needed as inputs to the model. The training time was short, and the fitting time was within a few seconds, which may save decision makers much time in obtaining predictions. This indicates the important role of statistical methods in climate-related research.

In fact, other studies have also proposed statistical approaches that took a small set of precomputed runs of global climate models to build an emulator which produced climate outputs. [@Castruccio2014] They demonstrated that this was a computationally efficient way of climate modeling, and it outperformed the traditional pattern downscaling method that tried to achieve the same results. This study showed that even a relatively simple statistical method could capture the temporal dynamics in climate modeling and was quite credible in applications such as impact assessment and others that do not require extremely precise predictions. The limitation was that they only assumed a linear relationship between the input and output. In our study, we were able to use a Random Forest model which learned to capture more complex and nonlinear relationships by itself rather than us having to specify them manually.

However, we should still point out that even though we were able to obtain a very small RMSE with more variables added, some of those variables might not be present in other earth system models. We need to avoid selecting such ones for adaptability to other models. In addition, since all of our data comes from the same earth system model (CESM), it is not clear if the emulator fit by this particular dataset will handle data from other models well. More extreme values of some variables may appear, which may not be accepted in random forest emulators. Fortunately, unlike ESMs, there are not many internal dynamics in urban parameterizations, which suggests predictions will not drift too far apart with the same set of input variables applied. [@Grimmond2011] Other potential problems include the absence of urbanization trends in the emulator that will certainly influence the accuracy of urban temperature prediction. This cannot be solved by emulator improvement, but only by better urban parameterizations.

Just like Reichstein et al. suggested, future studies in earth science offer many opportunities to use machine learning and deep learning approaches to develop data-driven models that can leverage data sources more effectively and provide insights. Physically-guided emulators have a strong capability in this sense, although with many possible improvements to be made. [@Reichstein2019] This area of research is likely to continue growing to find more ways to utilize machine learning to make earth system modeling power more accessible to decision makers.
